---
{ "tags": ["Thoughts"] }
---

# Hello, World!

Never had any idea what to write in the first blog post. Usually, there are some
words about excitement of starting a blog, or some welcome message. So why did I
start this blog? I don't know. Am I excited? Not really. In fact, it's a third
or even fourth attempt to start a blog. I guess I just want to offload some
stuff from my head. Maybe also make a habit of writing thoughts down.
For sure to learn how to write in English (not my native language). I hope to
figure out the answer quite soon.

---

Anyway, here's yet another technical blog about programming! Not really an
achievement, especially in 2022, where we have neural networks generating such
blogs without any sweat.

I remember I wrote my first program when I was still attending secondary school.
I think it was in 2001. Dotcom bubble just happened, Perl and HTML were the
hottest things, although I didn't know about anything like that. I've heard
about the Internet, but haven't had any access to it till the next year or
something. Anyway, I wrote my first program using Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0.

![Visual Basic 6 IDE](/images/2022-12-13/vb6.jpg "Visual Basic 6 IDE in its power and glory")

Was it exciting? Hell yeah it was. I instantly realized that's what I want to do
my entire life. That time I didn't need fame or money, just give me a computer
with a proper IDE and leave me alone. Who would've told me that programming is
actually a tedious, soul-sucking endeavor that will only lead to a
disappointment and frustration in a long run. Especially if you decide to follow
that foolish
advice:

> Find a job you enjoy doing, and you will never have to work a day in your
> life. Unless it's programming in JavaScript.
> â€” Mark Twain, probably

But before all the above happened, it was nice and exciting. After Visual Basic
I have switched to C++, doing stuff like Windows applications with MFC and
OpenGL.

![Photon3d MFC application](/images/2022-12-13/photon3d.jpeg "Photon3d was a primitive 3d editor me and my brother created just for fun")

Then briefly, some web development (huge mistake, LOL) using PHP and the LAMP
stack. Then back to low-level stuff, embedded development in C on tiny
microcontrollers (indeed, MCUs were called ATTiny, no pun intended). Then I've
got back to web development, Ruby on Rails (was nice) and after JavaScript with
React.js (not so nice). Here I am.

The more I become old the more I miss the old times. It was not easy back then,
programming was always a challenge. But it still feels like it was a different
type of challenge. Like the challenge of inventing a new reality, not a
challenge where you fight with the complexity of your tools. Jokes aside, they
even created neural networks, because selecting a new JavaScript library for
React.js state management is not an easy task anymore! I hope AI will be able to
cope with that, as I haven't seen any progress in AI psychoanalysis lately.

Perhaps another frustrating aspect of doing software development is the fact
that, at the end of the day, your work will have a little impact on the world. I
mean in a good way. Yes, some people do that, but at this point it seems like a
statistically insignificant outcome. Many times not planned at all.

---

What about me? I just wanted to make some video games (or to be precise _to
program_ some video games). And while I was trying this and that actual real
game development never happened, unfortunately. However, I still feel like I
need to resolve that itch somehow. And I guess (or I hope, let's be careful here
ðŸ˜…) this blog would be a journal of me closing those gestalts[^gestalt]. We'll
see.

[^gestalt]:
    In popular psychology (yikes!), there is a theory that the human
    brain is designed in such a way that it always waits for the end of the process.
    Any incompleteness causes psychological discomfort, which is popularly called an
    "unclosed gestalt". Hence, the "closure of gestalt" is to finish what you have
    started, bring it to an end, calm down and never return to the situation.
